"Now that we have some
understanding of how DNS
and networking works,
let's take a look at your issue again,
and try to troubleshoot the cause,"
says Jacqui.
Bob nods in appreciation.
Jacqui begins troubleshooting the issue.
To recap, we established that the URL
you were using is wrong,
and that the correct address
is caleston-repo-01.
When we try to access this new URL,
we are getting a connection timeout error.
This can happen due to a variety of reasons.
It could be an issue
with your local interface
not being connected to the network,
or it could be your host not resolving
the IP address of the host name
you were trying to connect to,
or it could be an issue
with the route to the server,
or it could be an issue with the server itself.
Maybe the server itself
has connectivity issues,
or the software that hosts the service
isn't functioning correctly.
We'll see how to perform a standard network
troubleshooting technique
to inspect each of these areas.
We will start with our host's IP connectivity.
Check the local interface
by running the IP link command
and ensure the primary interface is up.
In this case, the network interface
used is named enp1s0f1
and we can see that the state is up,
so that's a good start.
Next, we check if we can resolve
the host name to an IP address.
For this, run an NSlookup command
against the host name
and make sure it is resolving to a valid IP.
The NSlookup command
reaches out to the DNS server,
which is at address
192.168.1.100, in this case,
and requests
for the IP address of the host name.
It returns that the IP of the server
is 192.168.2.5,
so that's working too.
Next, we try to ping
the remote server to check
if we get a response.
We see that we don't get a response.
We sent three packets
and received zero back.
There was a 100% packet loss.
Ping is often not the best tool
to check connectivity,
as many networks would have disabled it.
However, it's worth a shot.
The issue lies between
our system and the server.
Something is wrong along the route
between our system and the server.
Let's find out.
To troubleshoot an issue with the route
we run the trace route command.
This will show us the number of hops
or devices between the source,
which is the laptop, and the repo server.
It will also show if there is a problem
with any of the devices in the network route
between the source and destination.
From the output,
we see that there are two routers,
the first one at 192.168.1.1
and the second at 192.168.2.1,
and the connection to both of them is okay.
However, the request timed out between
the second router and the server,
so that's where the issue is.
Looking at the repo server itself
will give us more idea
on what the issue could be.
It's time to troubleshoot from the other end.
"Since Dave is not around,
let us try to contact someone else
from the Linux support team
and see if we can set up
a screen sharing session,"
says Jacqui.
Jacqui arranges a session with the team.
Once a screen share is set up,
Jacqui checks if the HTTP process
is running on port 80.
The NETSTAT command, she explains,
can be used to print the information
of network connections
routing tables and several other
network statistics.
In this case, the command shows
information of active ports in the system,
and we are looking specifically to see
if the Port 80 is listening on the server.
We see that it is listening.
That means the web server is up.
Jacqui then inspects the interfaces
using the same command as before,
the IP link command,
she sees the interface is down.
That's the root cause of the problem.
She tries to bring it up using
the IP link set dev up command,
and it is now enabled.
"That should have solved the problem,"
says Jacqui.
After thanking the support
from the Linux team,
and leaving them to do a root cause analysis
as to why the network interface was down,
Jacqui proceeds to test the URL again.
This time she was able to access it
and so was Bob.
"Fantastic, it's working," says Bob.
He thanks Jacqui for her time
and heads back to his desk.